# Contributing to the Breeze templates

The main purpose of this document is so new and existing developers of the project have a better understanding of which file types we use for the creation of the templates, where the different files are placed, where to put new files, how to name (css class names) the different html elements of the templates and how to add new code to the project.

For requirements and tooling, please refer to the main [README](/README.md) file.

<!-- toc -->

-   [File structure](#file-structure)
-   [File Naming conventions](#file-naming-conventions)
-   [Styling](#styling)
-   [JavaScript](#javascript)
-   [Accessibility](#accessibility)
-   [Npm commands](#npm-commands)

<!-- tocstop -->

Note: The conventions in this document are created in order to avoid issues in the future and have more maintanibility of the template. **That's why they will be constantly revised and updated when they make no sense or there are better alternatives**.

## File structure

Currently there are 2 main directories:

-   [`src/`](src/) for all the source files.
-   `dist/` where all the compiled assets will be saved

The `dist/` sub-directory is ignored in GitHub since all the files there are generated by npm scripts.

This is a summarized view of the `src/` directory:

```text
src/
├── fonts
│   ├── ...
│   └── inter-v12-latin-regular.woff2
├── images
│   ├── ...
│   └── pie-chart.png
├── js
│   ├── ...
│   └── scripts.js
├── scss
│   ├── course
│   │   ├── ...
│   │   └── _ld-course.scss
│   ├── lesson
│   │   ├── ...
│   │   └── index.scss
│   ├── quiz
│   │   ├── ...
│   │   └── _ld-quiz.scss
│   ├── _body.scss
│   ├── ...
│   ├── _fonts.scss
│   ├── _variables.scss
│   └── styles.scss
├── quiz-single-choice-template.html
├── ...
└── index.html
```

The only thing to note from the file structure is that in `fonts/` reside the font files (ttf, odf, woff, etc) but the font CSS declaration resides in `src/scss/_fonts.scss`.

## File Naming conventions

-   Files names should use _hyphens_ for word separation instead of underscores (see next rule for hyphens at the start on `.scss` files)
    -   Good: `toggle-tab-status.js`, `_ld-container.scss`
    -   Bad: `toggle_tab_status.js`, `_ld_container.scss`
-   All `.scss` files should start with an `_` except from `styles.scss` so the compiler only creates one CSS file
    -   The final file will be `dist/styles.css`
-   Each **page** should have it's own styling directory to avoid too many files in the root
    -   `src/scss/quiz/`
    -   `src/scss/course`
    -   `src/scss/lesson/`

## Styling

When it comes to styling, we use SCSS for the creation of all the styles of the different pages. Some things to note regarding SCSS:

-   The entry point for the CSS generation is [`src/scss/styles.scss`](src/scss/styles.scss)
-   All the files should start with an `_` so they don't create a new `.css` file in the `dist/` directory

This project uses the [BEM](https://getbem.com/) methodolog for the naming of the `class` attribute of the different elements. Please familiarize with it's [structure](https://getbem.com/introduction/)

Besides using BEM, we introduce the following rules:

- All classes should start with `ld-`
- We should **only** style elements by it's class, not by its tag name not by it's ID

Good:

```html
<menu class="ld-main-menu">
  <li class="ld-main-menu__item" data-toggle-target="content-one">First item</li>
  <li class="ld-main-menu__item ld-main-menu__item--active" data-toggle-target"content-two">Active Item</div>
  <li class="ld-main-menu__item" data-toggle-target="content-tree">Third item</div>
</menu>
```

Bad:

```html
<menu class="main-menu">
  <li class="item">First item</li>
  <li class="item active">Active Item</div>
  <li class="item">Third item</div>
</menu>
```

## JavaScript

This are the conventions we use when it comes to JavaScript:

-   We use ES2022 standard for code generation
-   Each js file in `src/js/` shold export at least one function (`export default myFunction`)
-   Try as much as possible to export just one function on each JS file.
-   If you are importing functions from a JS library or file, just import the one you need. This will help with _Tree-Shaking_ and reduce the size of the final bundle
- Tryt to use the `id` and specially the `class` attributes to select elements with JavaScript. Try to use [`dataset`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLElement/dataset) attributes to refer to elements and pass data.
- Complementing the previouse rule. Use the `id` atributte to access an element if the `querySelector` is too complicated otherwise.

```html
<div data-tab-id="one" data-tab-status="active">My Tab<div>
```

```javascript
const activateTab = () => {
	const tab = document.querySelector('[data-tab-id="one"]');
	if ( "active" !== tab.dataset.tabStatus) {
		tab.dataset.tabStatus = "active"
	}
}
export default activateTab;
```

## Accessibility

## Npm commands

There are multiple scripts in the `package.json` file, but the 2 main ones are `npm run build` and `npm watch`.

-   The `npm start` command will compile
